let's return to our main story because
the world food program has paused
life-saving food deliveries to Northern
Gaza saying Aid convoys have endured
complete chaos and violence due to the
collapse in civil order the Israeli
military ordered 1.1 million Palestinian
civilians to evacuate Northern Gaza and
seek shelter in the south at the start
of its ground offensive in October last
month the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees underw said at least 300,000
people who' remained in the area
depended on its assistance for their
survival a deliveries to the north since
the ground offensive have been scarce
and dependent on security clearances
from the Israeli military well let's
speak now to Matthew hollingworth who's
representative for the world food
program live in Jerusalem Matthew thank
you so much for being here on the
program so just explain for us uh in a
little more detail why you've taken that
decision to pause food deliveries to the
north so um thank you Matthew and I mean
first of all it is a pause it's not a
permanent suspension this is temporary
in nature um we need to fix a couple of
problems that we were facing and have
faced this week u in the two convoys we
did get to Gaza City um the two convoys
came up uh with two big big concerns
first of all and most importantly when
we did get into Gaza City um
unfortunately um people came under Fire
as they were receiving assistance um you
don't really uh ever imagine that people
could be so desperate so hungry um and
so you know fearful of their own
family's health that they're willing to
run into machine gun fire to receive
food assistance but that's what we
experienced when we got into Gaza City
on Sunday and Monday of this week um
second of all as you rightly said we
also came up against some very serious
insecurity issues just getting into Gaza
City because of the breakdown of Law and
Order which is down to desperation it's
down to to you know hopelessness need uh
needs you know not being met outside of
the of Gaza City as well so those two
concerned married together um worrying
about the people we're there to serve
making sure that we're doing no harm by
providing them assistance and trying to
get that that safety assurance that when
people are going to be supported they're
not going to come under Fire that's our
primary concern and second of all making
sure that our gar and truck drivers our
gar and staff our International staff
who are going in are also not coming
under Fire um when they're providing
life-saving Aid two things in this
question tell me more about the need in
terms of what you've witnessed in the
north and how distressing is it as a
humanitarian to have to pause
humanitarian
efforts I mean the needs in Gaza City
are phenomenal um I spent four or five
hours traveled all around the city met
with lots of people um they are
desperate um people were able to live
off some stocks that were that that that
were still uh in the basements of
buildings in the basement of shops um
but unfortunately that is no longer
possible um people were
able in the past to get hold of
essentially chaff um it was animal feed
and they were using that animal animal
feed to make very basic flour to make
bread that ran out a week ago so people
are absolutely desperate for assistance
for food assistance uh what we've been
able to bring in so far is a drop in the
ocean what we need to be doing is
sending in 30 trucks every single day
consistently regularly without pause
people need confidence and trust that
humanitarian assistance will re will get
to them and they also need to know that
when it does they're not going to come
under Fire they're going to be protected
they're going to be safe none of that
exists yet that's what we're negotiating
to resolve once that's done the pause
will end and we will be back trying to
pump as much food flood food into a
place where famine is knocking at
people's doors a final quick question
you end by saying famine is knocking at
people's doors particularly in children
because more stats on that released by
your organization in the last 24 hours
and you must also be watching what is
happening around rafo with increasing
alarm look um it's we're talking about a
very small area um 140 square miles
there is no safe area across the
entirety of the Gara strip people are in
desperate need throughout the whole of
the strip um but when you look at the
the the level of deprivation
in Gaza City it is phenomenal as you
rightly said we came out with a joint
Report with the World Health
Organization and UNICEF earlier this
week that showed that in a very short
period of time um children are facing
emergency levels of malnutrition and
that should worry us all when you add to
that the Fear Factor on what will happen
next in Rafa potentially a million more
people displaced yet again people who've
already been displaced already lost
their homes and and been pushed around
parts of the strip seeking shelter and
safety and may have to do it again it's
a extremely worrying period um Rafer as
well as our our main entry point into
the strip it's the the artery for all
Aid that's going in which has already
been hampered in the last week because
of protests and violence on the corridor
where where we bring trucks into the
Gaza Strip things need to change we need
more entry points into the Gaza Strip we
need guarantees of safety that when we
can go when we can get Aid in can travel
around uh safely and we desperately need
to ensure that when we're serving people
those people don't actually face more
harm uh and more violence through the
provision of Aid they need safe Aid Drop
Zones where when we provide the aid they
can receive it and take it home to their
families Matthew hollingworth we have to
leave it there but thanks for talking to
us here on verified live we're grateful
for your time